# Project-1-Lede-Program---Air-Pollution-New-York-vs-China
 
In early June 2023, I was in New York doing the Lede Prgram in Data Journalism at Columbia University. This coincided with ochre skies due to wildfires in Canada. I wondered if the AQI level had ever been this bad while I was living in Beijing 2019-2022...I checked the AQI levels over the past three years, and yes it had been, many times, but I had never really taken notice of it. Why? Was it because the skies had never turned orange before in Beijing? Well they had, multiple times, especially in sandstorms. Was it the level of publicity New York's skies had gotten on the news, and how seriously everyone was treating it? Perhaps that was it - this was not normal by US standards, whereas in Beijing it's frequent enough to no longer make headlines. The Chinese government is also pushing legislation to cut down on air pollution - cleaner air and cleaner skies felt the norm while I was in Beijing, rather than the exception. 

I wondered if it was possible to compare what Chinese cities considered bad enough to attract attention, and what New York does. The html file shows my results - that although New York's air pollution levels are still much healthier than China on average, levels that are considered record-breaking by the two countries are **_slowly converging_**. See 'air pollution rewrite' for my working!  

This project was a way of trying out pandas and html code for the first time. I think I grew in how this was an introduction to the process of putting a data project together. However I would like to learn how to concatenate elements in pandas, and then also how to reorientate index and column values so that Datawrapper and Flourish are able to plot them out properly in visualizations. The TA I asked created the charts for me on R, which in future I shall avoid as much as possible - as by the end of the project I still did not understand my problems and learned nothing about how to overcome them. My approach was to make a hypothesis without properly thinking if it was worth going into - originally I was confident that I was going to find that Beijing 's air pollution was now around NYC levels - and it turned out I was very wrong! 

If there had been more time I would have liked to have created a website for myself to put this page on to...and also make the page itself look a lot sleeker, and better designed! For example, why did the Datawrapper graphs never align with the text borders, but stretch out across the screen? I would also have liked to have created a third chart, looking at the median as well as the average, and to have added data from another US city (like San Francisco) to balance out the two Chinese cities with two US ones. 